hi I'm Naveed Khan from Nashville credit
Club and today I'm going to talk about
how to prepare a cricket bat cricket bat
is made of different various kind of
Veloz there are various qualities in
these Veloz and each villo has different
grains basically so when you look at
your dad you'll notice their number of
different grains it could vary from you
know 5 to 12 or maybe more from the
villo based on the quality of the villo
some bats come in all prepared but the
others you have to you have to do a
little bit of preparation on that so
first thing we do is put some linseed
oil on the surface of the bat so after
and then we let it soak basically for a
day or so you know you don't want to put
too much oil on that otherwise we'll get
the villa rotten so just kind of put
little oil on the surface on the edges
and then after a day or so you would
like to knock in the process is called
knocking the bat first you do with a
mallet knock the edges of the bat very
slow stroke kind of go one stroke at a
time and cover the edges both sides of
the bat and after that you want to come
in the middle of the bat and start
knocking the bed so basically what
you're doing is you're chipping the bat
basically you're compressing the bad the
villo within the bed so that when the
ball strikes the bat it won't chip in
and the process again it like I said it
all based upon different kind of Veloz
for average kind of villo the process
may take basically a couple of weeks you
know I would say an hour a day for a
couple of weeks you know and again when
the bat is all ready and how would you
know is when you when you bounce a
mallet or a ball on the bat it will
really bounce back if it bounced back
the mallet or a ball from the bat then
you'll notice that it is or you know
that it's all prepared
if you hear a noise like something like
that you know ball it I mean the mallet
is not bouncing it means that the
battery that side needs to be knocked a
little bit more so and knocking is very
important if you're not if you don't
knock you're bad you can pretty much you
know you can get the bat can be broken
pretty easily during your practice or in
a match so that's pretty much about
knocking the bat